Ladies and gentlemen, good morning.
Today we're going to talk about building
concurrent user interfaces on iOS.
And you've read the title,
but let me tell you what I mean
by concurrent user interfaces.
In particular,
what I'm going to teach you today
is how to keep your applications
responsive and reactive to user input
even while they're doing a lot of work.
Now, if you've never done any
concurrent programming before,
this is a deep and complicated field.
It's full of trap doors.
But I'm hoping that I can give you enough
of the fundamentals today to get you
on your way and enough understanding to
avoid some of the pitfalls that are here.
If you've done concurrent
programming before,
on the other hand, you may feel like,
"Well, I must still be in bed.
I must still be dreaming because
I thought that you can't do any
concurrent anything with UIKit.
It doesn't support it.
Somebody on the Internet told me so."
But somebody on the Internet was wrong.
And today I'm going to teach you a number
of techniques where you can leverage that
existing concurrent programming knowledge
that you have and some best practices for
how to do that in particular with UIKit.
So all that out of the way,
let's dive in.
Say that you've got an app that downloads
a bunch of JSON from the internet,
like about half of them do.
But maybe it's a particularly
large blob of JSON,
so you need to parse it.
And then maybe you're going to massage
that data in order to get exactly
what you need for your application.
That can take a while,
and depending on how your
application is designed,
you don't necessarily need to block
your user from interacting with
your application during that time.
So I'm going to teach you how to
process that data concurrently with
respect to handling touch events,
handling accelerometer events,
all of that, so your application
will feel really fluid.
Next up,
once you've got that data processed,
you may need to make some
very fancy rendering of it.
You're gonna draw a pretty
plot or something like that,
and maybe your draw rect
takes 100 milliseconds.
Well, again, depending on the design
of your application,
that doesn't necessarily need to block
your user from doing things with it.
You don't want it to feel
laggy just because you're
making some complex drawing.
You don't want to punish
your user for that.
So I'm going to show you how to move
drawing to the background as well.
And then, once you've got all of these
concurrent operations happening,
you're juggling all these things at once.
You don't want more balls in
the air than you have to have.
And so if the user has done
something like navigated away
from a part of your application,
which means that one of the things
you've started up is no longer relevant,
I'm going to show you how to
cancel it early so that you
don't perform unneeded work,
wasting your user's battery life
and slowing him down from getting
to what he actually wants to do.
This is the app we're going
to be looking at today.
It's part of my Get Rich Quick scheme.
It does some fancy analysis
of the stock charts and tells
me where to put my dollars.
It's basically a big gambling helper,
and I'd like to show you what
we're going to start with.
We're going to be working
on this app all morning.
So I've got Xcode here.
Let's build and run.
Let's see where we are.
So as I click in here--
Nothing is responding at all.
And this is even worse.
But by the end of the day,
we're going to have the
situation much better.
You'll notice even like
if I'd changed my mind,
I clicked on the wrong category.
I can't even back out
until all that data loads.
That's pretty nasty.
So we're going to spend the
day fixing this application up.
And whenever you have performance issues,
the first thing you
should do is get data,
because you don't want to fix
potential performance problems
without actually knowing what's wrong.
And to get data about your performance,
we like to use instruments.
So I'm just going to go back to Xcode,
choose product profile,
so run this application in instruments.
And when instruments ask me, well,
what kind of instrumentation am I doing,
I'm going to choose the time profiler,
because what I care about
is where is my time going?
Why is it taking so long?
So now the application runs again.
And as I click into this category here,
we see this big purple plot
indicating that the computer
is thinking really hard.
And we go back here,
and we see another big purple plot.
So we're wondering about
these big purple plots.
What's hidden there?
If I hold down the Option key
and drag over one of them,
I can filter to just that.
And down here in this call tree area,
I can see what's taking so much time
quickly by holding down the Option key
and clicking on this disclosure triangle.
And as I scroll down, I see, okay,
it's all of that fancy stock
smoothing that's supposed to be
predicting the future for me.
That's what's slowing me down here.
And it's all happening in response
to some network data being received.
CR request connection did finish loading.
And so this is the section that we're
really going to want to try to speed up.
If we go back to slides for a second,
I will give you an overview
of how we're going to do that.
Let's start with some nice
schematics before we get to code.
The model that we like
to use is one of queues.
They're a little bit like
lines at the grocery store.
You got a bunch of people in that line.
We're going to deal
with the one in front.
When he's done, we're going to deal
with the one behind him.
Somebody comes in at the end of the line,
it's not his turn for a while.
So processing computational
work on our system,
we use much the same metaphor.
By default,
there's this thing called the main queue,
and all of the system events
come in on that queue.
So that's touches,
that's accelerometer events.
And because all of the work that
you're doing in general is happening
in response to these system events,
you are doing things
when the user touches,
that means that your work,
i.e., this expensive
work that we just saw,
is also happening on the main queue.
So the user touches,
and then we queue off
some network requests.
We say, hey,
give us some data about these stocks.
That network data comes in,
also on the main queue,
but now we have some work to
do because we got a bunch of
data and we need to process it.
So all of that processing work
appears on the main queue as well.
Now this queue's pretty backed up.
This line's getting long.
So if a touch event comes in
now at the end of the queue,
And these processing events take a few
seconds for us to get through them.
And that touch event will end up
getting processed like 15 seconds
after the user actually touched
or something very terrible.
Intuitively,
we would like that touch event to be
able to jump to the head of the line.
Touches are important.
So,
the way that we're going to do that is
effectively by opening another line.
We can have a data processing queue
in addition to our main queue.
And what that'll mean is that
when that network data comes in,
rather than enqueuing a bunch
of work to be performed,
smoothing that data on the main queue,
we're going to put that data
on the data processing queue.
And so now when a touch
comes in on the main queue,
If we have a dual core device,
we can even work on the touch event
and the data processing simultaneously.
But even if we have a single core device,
the system will slice things up
so that it gives time to both.
And it'll actually give more
to the main queue because,
like I said a moment ago,
touches are important.
So this way, you can handle touches,
you can handle accelerometer events,
you can handle even incoming
network data and timers while
you're doing this extra work,
this smoothing work.
Now, there's this one last little
square here at the bottom.
This one's new.
It's a box within a box.
It wasn't in the last schematic.
And it signifies a new idiom that
you need to be aware of when you're
doing concurrent programming.
It has to do with the age-old
adage that also applies here,
namely, "Don't cross the streams."
Consider what might happen if,
like I said,
a touch event comes in on the main
queue and UIKit is trying to figure out
which table view cell did that user just
touch while you are modifying the data
source which backs that table view cell,
potentially even on another processor.
Calamity will result.
And this is really one of the
biggest problems in concurrency,
and it's a very deep
and complicated problem.
But I'm going to show you
a guideline today which,
if you follow it,
should take care of basically
all of the cases that you care
about when working with UIKit.
And it goes like this.
The main queue is UIKit's queue.
It's where UIKit does its stuff.
It handles touches,
does rendering for the most part,
all of these things that
I've been telling you about.
And so if you want to ensure that
you don't touch anything that
UIKit might touch at the same time,
then all you have to do is,
when you've finished
processing that data,
you send it back over to the main
queue and actually update your
user interface on the main queue.
So if you have a lot of
expensive work to do,
you can do all of your expensive
work on whatever queue you like.
And then you can just send it back to
the main queue and update your UIKit.
And then when you finish
all that expensive work,
you perform that one little extra step
of sending the results of that work
back over to the main queue and updating
your user interface there so that
you don't end up fighting with UIKit.
That's a very small amount of extra time
compared to all of the time you save by
doing that extra processing on a separate
queue compared to your actual work.
Now that we've talked through schematics,
let's talk about code.
On our platform,
this queue idea that I've been
talking about is modeled by a
class called NSOperationQueue.
You can make one of them like this.
So now you've got that little queue
figure that I've been showing you.
You can even give it a name,
which is useful if you have
a lot of them flying around,
because it'll show up in the debugger.
And you can query it.
And you give that cue work
by a number of approaches.
This is one of them.
We'll start using this one first.
AddOperationWithBlock.
You give a block to the queue,
and you give it some work.
So now the queue has something to do.
And let me show you what it looks like
to do that box within a box situation.
Just like we had a box within a box,
we now have a block within a block.
And you'll notice the way that
I shipped work off to the main
queue was by actually getting
a reference to the main queue,
NSOperationQueue, main queue,
and then we gave it work the same
way that we gave our own queue work,
addOperationWithBlock.
So when we get around to actually
playing through that last operation,
we end up seeing the nice same schematic
effect that we had in the last slide.
We're giving the main queue work.
We're sending that data,
the resulting data from our processing,
over to the main queue.
Now that we've talked
through the principles,
Let's put it to practice.
Try to fix up our
application a little bit.
So looking at this instruments profile,
We see where the heavy work is.
We see that it's in
smoothing these stock points,
and we see that it's happening in
result-- in response to finishing
receiving some network data.
We've got some network data,
and so now we're gonna process it.
In fact,
even initializing a stock is expensive.
So, we're going to initialize
those stocks concurrently,
which means that we need to go
to CRStocksTableViewController,
requestDidFinishWithObject,
to do our work.
This is the CRStocksTableViewController,
and if we scroll down a little bit,
we can find the relevant method,
requestDidFinishWithObject.
All it does is pull all of the
objects out of the received data and
create a stock for each one of them,
save it in an instance variable,
and then ask the table view to reload.
We're going to move this
work to the background.
In order to do that,
I first need to create one of those
operation queues I was talking about.
So I'll add the instance variable to my
list of instance variables and initialize
it in this Table View Controller's
designated initializer.
Once I've done that,
I can start moving this
work to the background.
So here,
I'm gonna add a block onto my queue.
And now all of this work will
happen not on the main queue,
but on the queue I just created.
We're not done yet, though,
because you have to remember
that box within a box situation
that I was telling you about.
You do the work in the background,
and once you've got the result,
you send the result over to the main
queue and update your user interface
with the result on the main queue.
And just like in the schematic,
we can do that by saying NSOperationQueue
main queue add operation with block.
So now this is an operation which
initializes all of my stocks and which,
once all of the stocks are initialized,
ships them back over to the main
queue to update my user interface.
You may be wondering, okay,
I understand why table view reload
data needs to be on the main queue.
I mean, that's touching the UI.
But what about this
stocks instance variable?
Why does this need to be updated
on the main queue as well?
Well, if we scroll down a little bit,
we see our implementation of
UITableView's data source method,
number of rows and section.
We see that it returns the number
of elements in the stocks array.
And so if UIKit is asking,
"How many rows are in this table view?"
while we are changing around the number
of rows that are in that table view,
very bad things will happen.
Consequently, we update not only the user
interface on the main queue using
that shipping over technique,
but also anything which the user
interface might be touching.
So now that we've done this,
let's take a look at what
our project looks like.
If I click in the mid-cap,
you'll see that it's letting
me scroll at least a little bit
until it tries to start rendering.
And the other nice thing we've bought for
ourselves is that I can change my mind,
even though it's doing all
this expensive data processing.
But we still see that that
scrolling performance was no good.
So let's use instruments
again to figure out why.
Let me call your attention
to a couple things.
Here you see a line for main thread.
Main thread is basically like main queue.
And as I click here into this category,
we see the thing that is accruing
all of this running time,
the thing that's doing all of this work,
is not the main thread, i.e.
main queue,
but rather this dispatch worker thread,
i.e.
worker queue.
So that's great.
That means we move that
work off the main queue.
But now as I start scrolling around,
it's the main queue that
starts accruing time again.
So let's figure out what's going on.
Again, I'll filter to just this region.
And I'll see that
CRStockCellDrawRect is the culprit.
So we've got our data
processing out of the way,
and now it's our drawing
that we have to worry about.
So next I'm going to show you
how to move your drawing to the
background just like we moved that
data processing to the background.
Before we do that, though,
I'd like to review what we just covered.
Everything on the system that comes in,
touch events, accelerometer events,
network data by default,
all of these system events,
they're all delivered on the main queue.
And because you're doing all of your
work in response to those events,
you're basically just
implementing a whole series
of callbacks to system events.
All of your work happens
on the main queue as well.
which means that when
you're doing a lot of work,
you are blocking all of those things
that arrive on the main queue.
You can fix this situation by doing
that expensive work on a non-main queue,
one of your own creation.
NSOperationQueue is the one
way that you can do that.
And then we covered this one
additional tricky subject,
which is that if you are touching
anything which UIKit might touch,
we don't want a kind of siblings
fighting over the toy situation here.
So when you're done doing
that expensive work,
ship the results back over to the
main queue and update it there.
Excellent.
Let's talk about drawing.
Schematically, this is our situation.
A touch comes in,
which causes a scroll to happen.
And now we've got a new
table view cell on screen.
So we've got this draw rect.
And you can see I've drawn
it large to indicate just how
expensive this draw rect is.
So as we're sitting around
waiting for this draw rect,
touch events are enqueuing behind it,
just as they started enqueuing
behind the data processing
work that we were doing before.
And it's not until we finish
the draw rect operation that
we handle those touch events.
So just like with the data processing,
what we're going to do is try to put
the rendering on a queue of its own
rather than putting it on the main queue,
blocking all of that incoming work.
So now when a touch event comes down,
we'll put the rendering
on a background queue.
And just as before,
we've got that situation where
we can process touches that are
occurring on the main queue even
while the rendering is happening.
And just as before,
we have the box within a box,
which sends the result of that
rendering operation over to the
main queue to actually do the work
of updating our user interface.
In order to show you the
code teaching you how to make
this happen for yourselves,
I first need to make sure that
we're all on the same page
as far as how UIKit actually
gets pixels onto the screen.
That has to not be magic first.
'Cause right now,
it may be magic for some of you.
So you have UIViews.
You're familiar with this class.
There is this method,
UIViewSetNeedsDisplay.
That is the method that you call to say,
"UIKit, I would like to draw something.
"I've implemented DrawRect,
and I want you to call it."
Behind the scenes,
what UIKit is doing is turning around and
calling caLayer setNeedsDisplay because
every view is backed by a caLayer.
And then sometime later,
when it's convenient for
the rendering system,
that layer will be asked to display.
And when it's asked to display,
it will create a region of
memory called a backing store.
It's basically just a bitmap
that stores the result of all
of those rendering operations.
It's an image that's going to be
painted on screen repeatedly until
you call set needs display again,
thus invalidating it.
So it's that backing store
we're concerned with.
And in your drawRect implementation,
you're going to use core graphics
to draw into that backing store.
And so we tell core graphics that
this is the place we want to put the
result of those drawing operations
by creating a CG context and pointing
that CG context at the backing store.
Then all of your lines and shapes
and things will go into that bitmap.
Now, you've never accessed this directly,
probably.
UIKit surfaces that context to you
via UIGraphics.getCurrentContext,
which you've probably used if
you've ever done any CG drawing
calls of your own in DrawRect.
But even if you haven't,
the methods that you're
maybe more familiar with,
like UIImageDrawAtPoint and
the BezierPath methods,
the UIGraphics methods,
they all use this function, too.
So we're all pointing
at this backing store.
This is where we're gonna put the
results of our drawing operations.
So now, our strategy is going to be,
instead of doing our drawing
into this region of memory that
Core Animation is managing for us,
We're going to replace our
UI view with a UI image view,
make our own image, and draw that image
on our background cue.
We're going to take
this into our own hands.
We're not going to let
Core Animation make a
backing store for us.
We're going to make the
equivalent ourselves.
The nice thing is you can actually
use basically all of the same code.
This is a typical, albeit useless,
draw-rect implementation.
And we're going to keep it
essentially the same as we create
a draw-rect implementation,
which doesn't just draw into
the existing context that
Core Animation has set up for us,
but which rather creates one
of its own and draws into that
and then pulls an image out.
So instead of draw-rect,
will make some function
which returns a UI image.
It's gonna need to take a size to know
how big that image is going to be.
We make the UI image using
UIGraphicsBeginImageContextWithOptions.
The first argument is the size.
How big of a region of memory do we need?
This is specified in pixels.
Except there's a couple other options
that can affect how that works.
The second one is whether or not
what we're going to draw is opaque.
If what we're drawing is opaque,
then we don't need to bother
making an alpha channel.
We can save a bunch of memory that way.
The third option affects a
pixels-to-points conversion.
It's the scale factor.
So I said the first
argument was in pixels.
That's only sort of correct.
The third option,
you might pass two if you
have a retina display.
And that would mean that it
creates an image that's twice as
large as that first size argument.
But here I've passed zero because
that indicates just use whatever
scale factor the main screen has.
That's usually a sane thing to do.
So once we've done our
drawing operations,
we can get the image back
out of this context using
UIGraphics.GetImageFromCurrentContext,
end the image context,
thus cleaning up after ourselves,
and give that image back to the caller.
That's exactly what
we're going to do now.
I'm going to take this application
and make the drawing of those very
fancy plots happen in the background.
Here is CRStockCellDrawRect.
As you can see, it does many things.
It's creating that very beautiful
drawing of a graph for you.
But what I've created is CRStockRenderer.
Which,
as you'll be able to see in a moment,
has the exact same implementation.
Let me line them up here for you.
Except instead of, as I said,
drawing into a context which core
animation creates and manages,
it's going to draw into a
context which we control,
which we manage,
and it's going to return that UI image,
just like I showed you on
a slide a few moments ago.
So all this code is the same.
I migrated it wholesale.
What's different is
these first few lines.
Here we're saying,
if we've already drawn this graph,
let's not bother doing it again.
Let's return that value over again,
thus caching the result.
Easy enough.
The second line is exactly that
begin image context with options
call that I showed you in the slides.
We're saying we're going to make
one that's desired size big.
We're going to make it at
whatever the main screen scale is.
I'm not thinking too hard about opacity.
No is always safe.
And then all of this is the same.
We scroll down to the bottom.
And as you can see,
it's matching up nicely.
So all of this is lined up.
And we have just three
extra lines at the bottom.
First,
we pull the image out of the context
and save it in an instance variable so
that we can use it later as a cache.
Then we end the image context,
cleaning up after ourselves.
And finally, we return that result.
So now we need to make the code
which creates our cells use this
renderer instead of using the
stock_cells_draw_rect implementation.
Now you'll notice that cr_stock_cell,
it doesn't do anything else.
So we're just going to get rid
of these two files wholesale
because they're useless to us now.
And so if we go back to
the TableViewController,
first off, I'm gonna remove the pound
import for CRStockCell.
It's no longer relevant.
and scroll down to
TableViewCellForRowAtIndexPath.
Here, where we were going to
make a CR stock cell,
I'm instead just gonna
make a UITableView cell.
And I'm going to set that image from
our renderer as the image of the
image view of our table view cell.
We don't need to give our
cell the stock anymore.
We're going to give the
renderer the stock instead.
In order to take advantage of the
caching behavior I was talking about,
which will allow us to reuse the same
renderer's result over and over again,
we're going to have to keep track
of which renderer is which stocks.
So scrolling up again to the top of the
file where I have my instance variables,
I'm going to add an NSMutable dictionary
that maps names of stocks to renderers.
And I'm going to go ahead and
initialize it here in a knit with group.
And now, returning to my self-errored
index path method,
I'm going to start using it.
First, I'll try to pull a
renderer out of that map.
Say, "Do we already have a
renderer for this stock name?"
If we do and it's already
finished rendering,
then we're done.
We just give our cells image
view that rendered graph.
And it's just like before.
But if the renderer
hasn't already rendered,
we have a little more work to do.
First, there's the question of,
have we already made a renderer?
There's two possible states.
We could have made a renderer
which hasn't finished yet,
or we could have not already
made a renderer for the stock.
First, we're going to consider the
case where we haven't already
made a renderer for this stock.
This stock is new.
So we're just gonna allocate one of these
CRStockRenderers and give it our stock.
We'll store that renderer in this map.
And then we're going to ask it
to give us that rendered graph,
but we'll ask it to do that
on our own NSOperation queue,
not the main queue.
So as we're executing code here,
we're just going to breeze
right by these lines.
Keep on going.
Because this work, the expensive work,
is going to happen on our own queue.
And just like before,
once we've got that rendered image,
we don't update the cell's image
view on that background queue.
We update the cell's image view on the
main queue so as not to fight with UIKit.
We say cell, image view, set image,
rendered image,
and we do that on the main queue.
Now, regardless of whether we already
have a renderer starting for
this particular stock or not,
we can set a placeholder image
on our cell's image view while
that stock renderer is happening.
What exactly makes sense for your
application will differ by purpose.
Here I've just done a much simpler,
faster implementation of the same
rendering path that can complete
very quickly so that it'll give a
smooth scrolling while that rendering
is happening in the background.
So here,
I'm getting the placeholder image
of a particular size and putting
that on our cells image view
while on our background queue,
we're performing the
more complex rendering.
So now if I run,
we see that I can scroll smoothly
while stuff is rendering.
And we're at 60 frames a second,
which is fantastic.
There's just one other thing
that I want to show you.
which is that now if we go
to profile this application,
and I click into mid cap
and immediately click out,
this purple plot continues.
It's still doing all that work
because we started up this work
on our background operation queue,
but we didn't tell it to stop.
We didn't tell it, "Hey,
the user's not looking at this anymore.
Don't waste your time.
Don't waste power."
So we're going to look
at how to do that next.
But before we do,
I'd like to review the concepts
about rendering that we just covered.
Like everything else, by default,
the rendering happens on the main queue.
Your draw-rect implementation
is called on the main queue.
So if your draw-rect
implementation is slow,
you're slowing down the main queue
and all of the events that are
processed on it-- touch events,
accelerometer events, et cetera.
So just like with the data processing,
rendering can be moved out
to your own queue as well.
You just draw an image there.
And when you're done,
you ship it back over.
You can use any of the
UI graphics functions.
You can use UI image methods.
You can use UI Bezier path methods.
But you do have to make
sure that if you say,
"UI graphics begin image
context," like I was showing you,
you call UI graphics end image
context in the same operation.
Otherwise, the results are undefined.
That's one thing to keep in mind.
Finally, as before,
UI ImageView setImage is no more
safe to call from a background
queue than any of the other things
we've been talking about where you
could potentially fight with UIKit.
So even though what you've created here
on your background queue is an image,
not some data, not a string,
when you're done with it,
you ship it back over to the main queue,
and you say, "Hey, main queue,
I want you to be the one to
update my image view for me."
Now let's talk about cancellation.
Not keeping more balls in
the air than we have to.
If we have a situation like this
and the user navigates away from the
set of stocks that we're looking at,
we would like to not do any of this work.
There's a method that we can call
that will do something like just that,
called
NSOperationQueueCancelAllOperations.
And that will blow away not all
of the operations on the queue,
but all of the ones that
haven't started yet.
So that first one is still there.
And the reason for that is that
we can't possibly know if at any
given point during your operation,
it's safe to just cut it off.
Because most of the time it isn't.
So that operation keeps
running until it completes,
which might be fine
for a small operation.
But if it was more convenient for you
to set up your operations like this,
where you've got one really big one,
Then now you're in trouble because
you say cancel all operations.
And what you ended up
canceling was the useless,
tiny, incredibly fast operation,
not the one you actually care about.
So we have a solution for that, too.
We can say in our operation
when it's safe to cancel me.
There's a piece of API that you're going
to use called NSOperationIsCancelled.
But first I need to introduce
what NSOperation is,
because right now we've just been
talking about NSOperationQueues.
So far we've been doing
work that looks like this.
We've been saying,
"Queue add operation with block."
But that's actually just
a convenience method.
It's a shorthand for this longhand.
You can actually explicitly
create an NSBlock operation,
which is a kind of operation,
and give it some work to do.
And then put that block
operation on your queue.
So now, if we have something like this,
where we're going to loop over and over
and over again a bunch of pieces of data,
and process each of them,
because maybe it was convenient
to set things up this way,
then in the middle of our loop,
whenever we know it's safe to break out,
we can see, hey, have we been canceled?
If we have, we can break out,
potentially doing some
cleanup if we need to.
We can close any transactions
that might need to be closed.
We can make everything happy
and avoid unneeded work.
There's just one catch here.
Which is that we've just
created a reference cycle.
And I want to review what this means
for those of you who aren't familiar,
because this issue will come up a
lot when using the NSOperation APIs.
So our queue,
because our operation is on the queue,
has a strong reference to that operation.
And the operation, of course,
has a strong reference to the block which
contains the work for that operation.
But in that block,
we've referenced the operation.
And in Objective-C,
when you create a block
which references an object,
The block gains a strong reference
to the referenced object,
which means the operation
references the block,
and the block references the operation.
This creates an object cycle
that will never be cleaned up
without external intervention.
And the easiest way to deal with it
is just to create a weak reference
to the operation instead and to use
that inside of your operations block
rather than the strong reference,
which would create that cycle.
Now you see we've got a dotted line
from the block to the operation,
so we don't have that
reference cycle anymore.
We've talked through the theory.
Let's put it into practice.
Here we've got an implementation
of viewWillAppear.
Intuitively, what we want to have happen
is cancel everything,
stop doing all of that wasted
work when the view disappears,
when the user navigates back
to the list of stock groups.
So we can just do that by
implementing viewDidDisappear.
And it's a one-line implementation.
After calling "super," we just say, "Hey,
Operation Queue, stop doing all that."
Unfortunately, we're not quite done,
because for the sake of
expediency and for the sake of
having something to demo to you,
this operation is extremely long-running.
: The one which we created
in the very first demo.
So in every step of this operation,
we would like to be able to bail
If this operation has been canceled,
if the user has navigated
away from that stock listing,
we'd like to be able to say, "Hey,
stop smoothing the data
for the stock listing.
It doesn't matter anymore." So we know
it's safe to cancel operations here.
In order to do that,
I'm going to make an explicit
NSOperation rather than this
implicit one that I've made here.
So I'll just alloc init
an NSBlockOperation.
And I will put this same execution block,
unchanged, into this block operation.
Then I will put the block
operation onto my operation queue.
It's just the longhand version.
It'll give us a little more power.
Now from within the operation,
I can say, "If the operation's canceled,
I know it's safe to return here."
You might have to do some fancy cleanup.
You might have to do some
special work in your own code.
Here, we're just moving stocks,
and we're going to throw them all out.
So it's OK.
We can return here.
Clang is warning us of the
same thing that I warned you.
Capturing operations strongly
in this block is likely
to lead to a retain cycle.
Right you are, Clang.
To get around that,
We create a weak operation
reference and refer to that instead
inside of our operation block.
Now, Clang is no longer upset with us.
That's always good.
If we now run our application-- ah,
I should run it in the
profiler so I can show you.
Excellent.
So here I'm going to click into mid-cap,
and then I'm going to back
right out immediately.
And you see that it cuts off much
more quickly than it did last time.
It's just a little spike.
It doesn't go on and on and on,
wasting our user's battery,
wasting our user's time.
And that's great.
But there's one more issue.
which is that if I scroll
this list really fast,
you see these jump.
They appear and then they change.
That's a fun bug.
It also has to do with cancellation.
If we scroll down here to our
implementation of TableView cell
for road index path,
We see that the work that's happening
in the background looks like this.
We're going to ask our renderer
to give us an image representing
the plot for that stock.
And then once we've got it,
we're going to ship that image over
to the main queue and set it on
the cell which we were configuring
when this method was first called.
The issue here is that this method
may have been called a while ago,
and this cell thing that I have selected
may not be the cell that I think it is.
In particular,
if TableView cells scroll off screen,
"Then they are reused
for new on-screen cells.
So we may actually be setting
the plot for a stock which we
don't mean to be setting it for.
That is unfortunate."
We're going to fix this in
two ways to be thorough,
and I'm going to explain why
specifically I'm fixing it in two ways.
Way number one is a
useful one to know about,
and it refers to a new piece of
API in iOS 6 that I want to show you.
And that is that when a table
view cell goes off screen,
we want to cancel these operations.
We don't need for our system to
be wasting time computing plots
for a stock that's offscreen.
So we're going to
cancel those operations.
But we can't say
NSOperationQ cancel all operations,
because we don't want to cancel them all.
We want to cancel the one for the
cell which just went off screen.
We want the ones for the cells
that are on screen to continue,
please.
In order to do that,
I need to keep track of each
stock's operation separately.
So I'm going to scroll back up here
to my list of instance variables
and make another mutable dictionary.
At this point,
you got two mutable dictionaries
mapping stock names to something.
If this were a real project,
you would probably create
a real structure for this.
But this is a demo,
and so we have two mutable dictionaries.
Each of them map stock names to a thing.
This one maps stock names
to rendering operations.
And I'm going to instantiate it
in my designated initializer.
Now, if I scroll back down here,
instead of saying, "Hey, Q,
add operation with
block," I'm going to say,
NSBlockOperation block
operation with block,
thus making an NSBlockOperation
I can refer to.
I'm going to put it on my queue.
This is a little bit of a longhand form.
And then I'm going to store it
in my dictionary so that I can
get to it when my table view cell
goes off screen and cancel it.
Before I do that,
there's one other tricky situation here.
Which is that even if
I cancel my operation,
this code may end up executing anyway.
Like I said,
canceling an operation doesn't
guarantee that that operation won't run.
Because if it's already running,
we can't stop it.
And furthermore, simply saying,
if not operation is canceled here,
is not safe enough either.
Because it could be canceled
right after we check that.
So we're going to do something slightly
safer within our operation as well.
Rather than saying cell image view,
where this cell could be referring
to a table view cell that has now
been repurposed for some other use,
I'm going to say table view cell
for row at index path with the index
path that was originally passed in.
So if that cell is still the
same one that I think it is,
it's going to return the cell
I was initially pointing to.
And if my cell is now off-screen,
it's going to return nil,
which is lovely for this purpose,
because when I try to get its image view,
that will return nil,
and when I try to set
image on a nil variable,
nothing will happen.
Now that we've done all this,
we can cancel our
TableView cells operation.
using a new piece of NSTableViewDelegate
API called TableViewDidEndDisplayingCell
for row at index path.
Whenever a TableView cell
scrolls offscreen,
this method will be called,
and this is your opportunity to
do any kind of cleanup that you
may-- for operations which you may
have started related to that cell.
If you've allocated a bunch of
side table resources for that cell,
this would be a good
place to tear them down.
And in this example,
if you have started up some
long-running concurrent operation
associated with the cell,
this would be a good place to cancel it.
So here's the code to do that.
First, we fetch the name of
the stock in question,
and then we pull the operation for that
stock out of that dictionary I created.
So we have a reference
to an NS operation.
This is the task that is running,
or hopefully hasn't run yet,
because if it hasn't run yet,
we can still stop it.
If there is such an operation,
we're going to ask it to cancel,
and then we're going to remove
that stock from this map.
And that's it.
So if we run our application,
and now scroll really fast
once everything is here,
We'll see that it doesn't
pop around anymore.
Everything is happy.
in the land of our application,
and that means that I'm going
to get rich very quick as
soon as I get off the stage.
So, we just learned some
things about cancellation.
Namely, that there is a method called
NSOperationQueueCancelAllOperations.
You can call that to throw out
any operations that are running--
or that have not yet run on
a particular operation queue.
You can also cancel a specific
NS operation by sending that
operation a cancel method.
But remember, if it's already started,
that's not good enough.
That's not going to cut it off.
So you can check within
your operations to see,
has this operation been canceled already?
There's that isCanceled
method that I showed you.
You want to check that periodically
when you know it's safe.
Before I go on and wrap up,
give you some more
parting words of wisdom.
For those of you leaving,
I do actually have some
more new things to say.
I want to point you to
some excellent resources.
There's a gentleman named
Jake Behrens who wears plaid and
who can answer your questions.
He's great.
There's this concurrency programming
guide that you might want to check out.
It's got even more details about
some of the pitfalls that you can
really run into once you start
leveraging this stuff heavily.
And finally,
there's the Apple Developer Forums,
which is the place where
you can help each other.
There was one particular piece of
parting wisdom that I wanted to give you,
which is that I've taught you
how to make these own queues,
these queues of your own,
to get out of the way of the main queue.
And that's great.
But once your application
gets sufficiently complicated,
you might want to get out of
the way not of your main queue,
but of your own queues.
So you can make more of these.
You can make queues
and queues and queues,
and they can point to each other.
They can have dependencies on each other.
This whole thing can get
very gnarly very fast.
And in UIKit land, we've dealt with some
nasty consequences of that.
So a parting word of wisdom that I wanted
you all to take with you had to do with
that scheme that we had for shipping
data back over to the main queue.
That is a useful philosophy,
and it can be applied to your
own sets of queues as well.
It's typically called the
share nothing philosophy.
And so if you've got your
own sets of queues which are
competing over a piece of data,
like they're both going
to be modifying it,
they're both going to be
reading it and writing it,
then you might want to use that same
strategy that we used for UIKit's
queue versus your queue and say,
"Hey, this one queue I've made,
this is the canonical owner
of this piece of data.
And so on this other queue I've made,
and maybe this third queue I've made,
when I want to modify that piece of data,
when I've got some new value for it,
I'm not going to just modify it
on that second or third queue,
but I'm going to have to
update it on the first queue.
And so I'm going to have to
modify it on the second queue,
and then I'm going to have to
update it on the third queue.
And so that's just as much crossing
the streams as it was for you to
update your image view on a secondary
queue and then fighting with UIKit.
So you could say on your
second and third queue,
"Hey, first queue,
I want you to do the work
of updating this data.
Ship the data over to the first
queue and have it do that."
Have a great week at WWDC.